I need to know how to fix a dehumidifier
that freezes up if the refrigerant is
leaking out it'll freeze up to the point
that it runs out of the chemicals to
make stuff freeze at that point it will
fall and it won't work as a dehumidifier
at that point and in the meantime it
won't work as well you'll also get a lot
of sweat on the dehumidifier building up
faster than it is designed to collect
some of which will freeze around the
refrigerant leak what do I do about it
having ice on it if you need to thaw it
out faster turn it off I suppose a blow
dryer would work even faster I thought
there was something I could do to
actually fix it you could change the air
filters yourself in case the
dehumidifier is icing up because of poor
air flow through the air filters I can
see how clogged filters make the motor
run harder to get the same output but
not how that causes it to ice up the
lack of air flow around the
dehumidifiers refrigerant fill coils can
cause the cool air to become cold enough
to freeze and there's not enough airflow
passing through the coils to melt the
ice crystals so you get a frozen coil so
changing the air filter could fix the
airflow problem that causes it to freeze
it won't fix a refrigerant leak but it
could solve freezing due to other things
I probably need to wash them with bleach
water anyway to minimize the mold and
mildew growth it could have and then
there's the possibility that your cold
dank basement is just too cold for it to
operate so putting the equivalent of an
AC coil down there guarantees it will
freeze what else could I do to fix the
icing of dehumidifier you cannot buy the
refrigerant to recharge it since only
HVAC repair people have that license you
probably do not have the tools to fix a
leaking condenser or a coil though you
might be able to replace a leaky valve
that's what an HVAC repair person is for
many of them won't touch a dehumidifier
so you have to take it to an authorized
repair place however for many cases you
could simply solve the problem by
turning up the fair
stet we are talking about a dehumidifier
not an air-conditioner turn up the
thermostat in the room where the
dehumidifier is located it is designed
to run in rooms that are 65 degrees
except for a few basement specific ones
made to tolerate sixty degrees and
sitting in a to cold basement guarantees
it'll freeze as long as I do not turn
cold and damp into Louisiana summer that
will work